Copyright (C) Volition, Inc. 1999.  All rights reserved.

All source code herein is the property of Volition, Inc. You may not sell 
or otherwise commercially exploit the source or things you created based on the 
source.

A guided tour of the FS2 source code,  by DaveB
-----------------------------------------------

Within this code you will find both razor sharp coolness and horrifying
atrocities. I'm hoping it'll serve not just as tool for learning how to
do things, but also for learning how _not_ to do things. Have fun with it.


Overview
--------
FS2 is an MsDev 6.0 project. Within the workspace are several subprojects.

- Ac. This is the animation conversion utility for generating FS2's
  custom .ani files.

- CFileArchiver. A very simple command line utility for quickly packing
  files into .vp files.

- code. 99% of all FS2 code exists in this module. Many of the utility
  projects have this library as a dependancy and it is organized as a
  simple set of code folders.

- Cryptstring. A command-line tool for generating super-secret codes from
  input text. More of a curiosity than anything else ;)

- Fonttool. A simple utility for generating and kerning the font files
  FS2 uses.

- Fred2. The FS2 mission editor. A giant mass of MFC code - it references
  plenty of stuff from the code library.

- Freespace2. This generates the FS2 executable. There are only a
  handful of files in this subproject - most of the game comes from the
  code library.

- Nebedit. An old utility used for generating FS1 style background nebulae
  patterns. Not used directly in FS2, but the code to display the old
  nebulae still exists in the FS2 codebase.

- Pofview. A simple MFC app for viewing POF files as they would appear
  ingame.

- Scramble. Top-secret Canadian encryption program. Guaranteed to be 
  unbreakable for at least 20 to 25 minutes.

The critical subprojects most people will be concerned with are code, 
Freespace2, and Fred2. All of these subprojects have Debug and Release
(optimized) builds. pstypes.h also contains quite a few conditional
build switches. 

All source safe checkin headers have been left in for maximum comedy.

This is code-only. You cannot run without having a full copy of the game 
to supply the data.


Stuff that doesn't exist
------------------------

Several bits of the game have been removed from this release. Nothing
of major importance. They include the launcher, the movie player, the
auto-updater, and all code related to PXO and squadwar (for obvious
reasons).


Project settings (Msdev 6.0)
----------------------------

All of the subprojects that rely on the FS2 data tree to run (code, fred2,
freespace2, nebedit, pofview) are all currently targeted at

e:\games\freespace2\  

which is the directory I had on my local hard drive for putting this together.
Before you'll really be able to do anything, you'll need to point the targets
at wherever your local FS2 install is (make sure to make a copy of your 
installed executables so you can backtrack!).

To change the destination in MsDev, you'll need to change
settings->debug->executable for debug session
settings->debug->working directory
settings->link->output file name

All projects have been verified as compiling and running properly. So, unless
I screwed something up between the time of checking everything and building
the zip file (entirely possible) you should just be able to load the workspace
and hit F7. If not, hey, just one more thing to play with ;)


Post-release addition
---------------------

I hacked in very quick-and-dirty windowed support for Direct3d mode. 
The way FS2 was developed, we always could rely on running Glide
on a second monitor. Trying to do any kind of serious debugging in full
screen Direct3D is just a recipe for agonizing pain. So windowed D3D 
should make debugging a whole lot easier for the average guy. I make no
guarantees about completeness or stability since it was hacked together
in 3 hours - however it does appear to function properly in both resolutions,
in both 16 and 32 bit desktops. Depending on your 3d card and your driver
settings, you may get some texture coordinate wackiness (particularly
visible on interface screens) but for the purpose of debugging/development
it should be sufficient. Fiddling with your driver settings in Control Panel
can make this go away.

You can run the game in windowed mode by adding -window on the command-line.



Interesting projects
--------------------
There's a bunch of cool things that could be done with the code.

- It uses directX 5. It might be fun to bring that whole thing up to
  speed with DX8.

- The lighting and model rendering code works, but is much more expensive
  than it needs to be on average. With even a little bit of work, it 
  wouldn't be too hard to probably triple the throughput of that part of
  the pipeline (taking advantage of the guard band present in almost all
  modern 3d cards, maybe even a dash of T&L). 

- The multiplayer code is huge and scary. Its nor particularly "modern" in
  terms of motion prediction and lag compensation. It could use some taming.

- With the higher fillrates available on video cards today, I'm sure the 
  full nebula effect could be improved/changed quite a bit. 

- The FS community has been clamoring for higher ship counts and object limits.
  It would be a pretty trivial matter to have a commandline option that lets
  you specify MAX_SHIPS and similar constants. The internal stuff could be
  changed from a static array to a dynamically allocated array at startup. A 
  few #defines would be need to changed to ints, but beyond that it should be 
  pretty trivial.

- The Ai code is another huge, intimidating system. There's plenty of room for
  cool AI functionality.

- There's a mostly empty opengl implementation of the low level graphics code.
  Might be fun to complete. Although I doubt it would be nearly as fast as D3D
  or Glide, you never know.

- Fred2 is the omega of all giant unwieldy pieces of code. Its big, its horrifying,
  and it just doesn't care. View it at your own risk.

- The physics library is pretty well partitioned and lives in its own little
  world. If you want to add newtonian motion, that's where you'd start.

- The particle system code, while also functional is a bit old fashioned. A
  little elbow grease could really bring it up to speed and make it able to
  handle much higher particle counts.

- Mods. Have at it.

- Multi-res interface. For all the masochists out there. 

- There was a demo recording/playback system I half-heartedly was playing with at
  one point. Its still in there, in very incomplete form.

- The math library is very powerful. Not necessarily a "project" on its own, but
  its very sophisticated.

- Bmpman is rather brutish. It could be made far more elegant.

- The sexpression code is some of the more elegant and powerful code in the game.
  Its very extensible and fairly easy to work with. Much functionality can be
  added with these.

- For every bug you can find, I'll give you $5. No, I'm kidding. I don't have
  that much money.